About Us….
Bhagavan Sri Ramana Vidya Peedam Ashram was established in the year 1988 by Pujya Sri Swami Sahajananda. His vision was Health and Happiness for all. As the byline indicates it is ‘A Place for Holistic Living and Self-Enquiry’. For a common onlooker, Tiruchuli is a place yet to be touched by any kind of material progress. For the silent seeker, it’s an abode of revelation.
The story that mythology unfolds goes as this.... When there was a Pralayam in the universe(dissolution by water) the Devas approached Lord Shiva to save the universe and restore balance. Shiva is said to have thrown forth his divine weapon - the Trident, which hits the earth at this place, creating a ‘chuzhi’ a whirl, through which the water, causing destruction gets sucked in and the universe saved. Hence the name Tiruchuli.
It is a common ritual among the people of the South, who are on a pilgrimage to Kashi that they begin their yatra from Rameshwaram .The holy waters of Rameshwaram  are collected for the abhishekam of Kashi Viswanatha who resides in the holy land of Varnasi and on return, end the yatra at  Tiruchuli before they proceed home.
Stories of yore are endlessly woven in and around this sacred place and little do people, caught up in the perils of civilization realize its subtle truths. Though many Soul meanings have been lost in the sands of time, time and again the land has been the birth seat of many Great Souls.
To Swami Sahajananda Thiruchuli was more than just a place in India. For him it was a Saving Ground 'for many  a man in the quest for the Higher. So it will not be surprising if Swami Sahajananda envisioned and established a place for Holistic Living and Self-Enquiry. 
Swami Sahajananda’s  life mission can be encapsulated in three dynamic phrases.
Clean your body by Fasting 
The mind by Meditation &
The ego by Surrender
Sri Raman Vidya Peedam is a simple place which embraces holistic living as a way of life.
Health is the cornerstone on which the ashram has been founded.The Sahaja way of Health is fondly termed as 'Sahaja Arogyam' - Effortless Health. Health Camps are conducted around the year.
The Ashram operates on a well chalked out calendar.
Seekers who wish to make a visit can get  in touch with  the ashram admin.
● Appointments to be taken a week before arrival at the ashram.
● The Ashram is a place with a rich Biodiversity, and a small briefing will ensure and help you settle within the premises with more awareness.
● RVP is a simple place. We provide simple accommodation .
The Cottages are thatched and suitable for stay even during extreme summers. But recommended time of visit - between September till February.
● Ashram provides simple healthy vegetarian food.
The Ashram is a paradise for health lovers.At the heart of the ashram  is the well curated Sahaja Arogyam Cuisine. If health rejuvenation is the intention of your visit, yes the sahaja health professionals will take you through a briefing of the foods that would be suitable for you. .
 
Seekers can also engage themselves in the day today activities of the ashram.
ASHRAM ACTIVITY LOG
 Agnihotram, Chanting , Yoga,  Meditations, Talks, Readings, Services: 
The  Ashram is home to many unique and life enriching meditations. Beginners are introduced to simple meditations.
We also provide Sahheal Counselling Services which covers 
Personalized counselling services
Health Counselling 
Social Counselling
 Family counselling 
Depression Counselling
 Marriage Counselling 
Counselling for children 
Pre Marriage Counselling 
Parenting counselling
You may contact the admin for fixing appointments and clarifying queries.
 Volunteering 
Volunteering is an important leg of the ashram and it   does provide a whole host of volunteering activities.You can choose from what best suits you.
 If you have a skill and your area of expertise can make a difference to our environment, feel free to contribute. 
Areas for Volunteering 
Watering and Nurturing Green 
Cleaning of Goshala
 
Sweeping Ashram premises 
Cutting vegetables in the Kitchen  
Supervising the dining
Meditation hall cleaning services. 
P.S - For those new to the give back space - We take them through simple guidelines for volunteering. 
Insight Programs:
The Ashram has a series of well curated programs for Corporates called Insight into Wholistic Living. 
The Insight Programs cater to Corporate houses, Educational Institutions,Business and Media Houses.
For enquiry regarding Corporate Programs - Contact Ashram HR @ 9844055119, 9994624444
For enquiry into Ashram in house Health Programs contact admin @
 Admin Ph:9844055119. 9080248536

